MSML-3773 Styling guidelines (#10)
MSMLBV/guidelines: docs/guidelines/stylesheets.md

---
title: CSS/SCSS
---

# CSS/SCSS

> Welcome to the **SCSS/SCSS**! This document outlines the best practices and conventions for using CSS or SCSS at MSML.

Reviewer: Moet dit niet zo zijn?
```suggestion
Welcome to the **CSS/SCSS**! This document outlines the best practices and conventions for using CSS or SCSS at MSML.
```

#### List "Regular" Styles Next
Adding out regular styles after the @extends and @includes allows us to properly override those properties, if needed.

```css
.weather {
  @extend %module;
  @include transition(all .3s ease-out);
  background: $brand-primary;
  /* ... */
}
```

#### Nested Pseudo Classes and Pseudo Elements Next
Pseudo elements and pseudo classes directly related to the element itself so, for that reason, we nest them first before other selectors.

```css
.weather {
  @extend %module;
  @include transition(all .3s ease-out);
  background: $brand-primary;
  
  &:hover {
    background: darken($brand-primary, 10%);
  }
  
  &::before {
    content: "";
    display: block;
  }
  /* ... */
}
```

#### Nested Selectors Last
Nothing goes after the nested stuff. And the same order as above within the nested selector would apply.

```css
.weather {
  @extend %module;
  @include transition(all .3s ease-out);
  background: $brand-primary;
  
  &:hover {
    background: darken($brand-primary, 10%);
  }
  
  &::before {
    content: "";
    display: block;
  }
  
  > h3 {
    @include transform(rotate(90deg));
    border-bottom: 1px solid #fff;
  }
}
```

### Maximum Nesting

> Three Levels Deep. Chances are, if you're deeper than that, you're writing a crappy selector. Crappy in that it's too reliant on HTML structure (fragile), overly specific (too powerful), and not very reusable (not useful).

Reviewer 2: Misschien dit is beter?
```suggestion
Three Levels Deep. If your selector goes beyond three levels, it is likely problematic. It may be too dependent on HTML structure (fragile), overly specific (too powerful), and lacking reusability (not useful).
```

Author: Fair
